[Music]
we gonna say not guilty no one stop and
pull the trigger
I'm tired of that don't bow down anymore
oh your head before now freedom now you
must also realize that the problems of
racial injustice and economic injustice
cannot be solved without a radical
redistribution of political and economic
power you can't do for yourself what the
white man is doing for himself don't
think you're equal with the white man if
you can't set up a factory like he set
up a factory don't talk about inequality
talk
[Music]
they are
any black leader with charisma was a
target of the government's and their own
objectives of the how did he keep what
calm did you speak where's your history
how do the men wipe out your history how
did the men what did the men do for make
us dumb
because here began to take meaningful
steps towards gaining the freedom for
his people people taking steps to
internationalize the black bands
struggling to take it to the United
Nations to take it diplomatically to the
other countries around the world
so the meaningful pressure could be
brought to bear on the United States
government and to force them but that is
people go we can't prove for sure that
the FBI Cohen tel program or an agent of
the FBI actually killed Malcolm X they
were certainly trying to reach that in
they were articulating that goal and
they were taking steps in furtherance of
that trying to cause the exact same
thing to happen which happened so we can
step back from it and say regardless of
their success whether they were the ones
who pulled the trigger this gives us an
idea of what they what their intent was
what they were willing to do what their
political viewpoint was and what ends
and what unconstitutional and violent
ends they were willing to adopt in order
to reach their goal which was to destroy
[Music]
so again we cannot say for sure the
James Earl Ray was working for the FBI
but we can say for sure is that the FBI
had an intent shown by their programs
against dr. King showed by the document
I talked he talked about about
preventing the rise of messiahs like dr.
King but they wanted that to happen and
that they had again taken very active
steps to do that so then when dr. King
is killed a month after this document
comes out and after all of the attempts
to get him to to discredit him and to
disrupt his organization and in fact to
have him do visible violence to himself
and have others do physical violence to
him I mean it becomes almost irrelevant
whether they pulled the trigger or not
because we know that they did pull the
trigger on Fred Hampton we have to
defend ourselves we intend to infant
defend ourselves we did so in the past
we're gonna do it today and then day
after day than the day after that
because only through this property
example of the self-defense and the
proper example of retaliation and by
letting these people know that we moved
from some basic laws then anything that
goes down will depress people on the
part of the oppressor it should be
reciprocal in playing polo cherica's
language it takes two to tango
as soon as these [ __ ] go we go
[Music]
Fred Hampton was only 20 years old but
he's seen he had the ability to really
move people to speak in a way that got
people going that effectively seemed to
to energize them
he was began to develop a following
throughout the throughout the country
and he was a direct threat to the power
structure that oppressed people people
learned by example I think I don't think
anybody has an argument with that I
think that when you even said that
people learn basically by observation
and participation I think did everybody
caught on to that so what you're saying
there simply is that if they learn by
observation and participation that we
need to do more acting than we need to
do writing and I think the Black Panther
Party is doing that then we didn't talk
about a breakfast for children program
we've gotten one we're not going to tell
you how many kids maintain the freedom
speed in Chicago we've been 3,000 to
4,000 every week already and I don't
know how many all around the country
we're not talking about beginning to
think about treating people free when
they need medical services we're open in
the free health clinic in the city of
Chicago in less than three weeks these
are the type of examples that people can
relate to the immediate violent criminal
reaction of the occupants in shooting at
announced police officers emphasizes the
extreme viciousness of the Black Panther
Party so does their refusal to cease
firing at the police officers when urged
to do so several times at Hanrahan who
was the political heir apparent of Mayor
Daley wanted to take credit for having
careless Black Panther leader so he went
on television and he went and went on
television explaining how Fred Hampton
had come out of his bedroom firing a
pistol and how all the Panthers inside
had repeatedly broken ceasefires and
repeatedly fired at the police the
problem is when you fire a bullet two
things happen you have a shell that
comes from your gun and you have a
bullet that comes out the other end when
the evidence was all gathered it turned
out that all the shells that were found
in the apartment came from police
weapons with the
exception of one all the bullet holes
the directions of those bullet holes
were all coming inside from outside that
is to show that they were fired by the
police so that all of the evidence that
Hanrahan said all the evidence that was
gathered proved that it was the police
who fired not the Panthers Hanrahan went
even further and actually pointed two
places on the back door which he said
were evidence in pictures that the
Panthers fired the press themselves when
they look closely at these pictures and
return to the scene discovered that
these were in fact male heads and
weren't bullet holes at all the federal
government had first appeared to be
coming in and do a neutral investigation
and what the federal government did find
of course was that it was the police and
not the Panthers who had fired under
their cover though the federal
government under the cover of appearing
neutral the federal government hid their
own role which was that it was their
informant who had gotten a floor plan of
the apartment and their informant had
given their floor plan to add my Henry
hands writers I was supposed to be in
one of the murder Panthers okay however
my plans changed that evening and the
informant William O'Neal was unaware of
the changes and plans that I had that I
had made so my plans had changed and I
was not in the apartment I was in the
apartment earlier but I left the
apartment and so I wasn't there so they
went to plan two in order to get rid of
me they raided my apartment the next
morning on December 5th shot my door
down and they thought that that they
that I was in the apartment there had
been a systematic effort by the FBI in
Chicago and nationally to destroy the
Panthers previously the FBI in Chicago
had sent a letter to the head of the el
rukns jeff fort telling him the Panthers
were trying to assassinate him didn't he
want to take some action to prevent that
they had deliberately attempted to
provoke things between the Panthers and
other groups and attempted to discredit
the Panthers publicly they didn't have
to kill every leader all they had to do
was killing one of the most important
and up-and-coming and messianic leaders
who was doing what Fred Hampton was
doing to send the message to all those
young folks whether it be black or white
or Latin or whatever who wanted to get
involved in the struggle but these are
this is the game that you're getting
involved in will kill you when you're
back I think during different periods
the government uses different tactics
that you know and sometimes their
methods will be the public discredit
group to to jail people we saw that
sometimes with regard to the web as they
they actually did kill people we saw
with regard to the to the Communist
Party they think only would jail people
are attempt to ruin their reputations I
think with regard to the black movement
in particular the love of the escalation
of the government's attacks was very
clear and I think assassination setting
people up for inner Nissin rivalries
which could lead to deaths I think the
government has shown a willingness to
use any form of violence that it felt
was necessary
[Music]
the FBI itself its structure was one
which was never of course happy with the
struggle the fact that Martin Luther
King was that Falls were tapped in the
problems that a J / give him was clear
we only put King out we expected it from
us and snake but certainly King was not
a flaming revolutionary calling for the
destruction of America was a reformist
trying to in fact improve America and
was good for the image of America within
the FBI who viewed itself as the
vanguard of fighting you know communism
and so forth they they they were always
afraid that civil rights and the thrust
for voting rights and so forth was white
people white people running behind it
and we get the living hell out of the
[ __ ] since the out of town [ __ ] to
the hospital and out of the faith foot
back to their own hometowns really all
of in and the [ __ ] even saying all the
things got quiet and look back over
negative long the feeling was that the
the FBI agent from the South was
indistinguishable from his community the
FBI had to work with the local law
enforcement that were their task so was
clear here first of all yeah
they have our comradeship from being in
the same type of job law enforcement
agencies and they were comrades from
being in the south there together
not having too much work joking together
and probably had social life together
and since the local police or the
enemies were enemies and the FBI was
supposed to be our allies it meant a
automatic split between them which never
occurred while our just after three
weeks bill with a 45 or 46 day battle
from fall Holly that's parked and diming
ant where we stopped
and I mean ladies and gentlemen we've
had that [ __ ] whip FBI in the South
rather than stopping Klan violence would
in fact allow it to happen mr. Schwartz
but that was the problem with the
Birmingham Police Department what about
the FBI did you ever discuss with them
why they didn't do anything mr. Rowe yes
sir
I was told by the FBI they said well who
the hell are we going to report it to
the police department was involved in it
the police department helps set it up we
are an investigating agency not an
enforcement agency all we do is gather
information this was my answer mr.
Schwartz mr. Rowe were you an informant
in the Klan mr. Rowe yes I was Schwartz
from when to when Rowe from
approximately 1959 to 1965 Schwartz in
1965 did you surface in connection with
a murder case
Roe yes I did Schwartz whose murder and
what role did you play in that case Roe
I was in the automobile the evening that
mrs. viola Louisa was killed by a
Klansman at the high point of FBI
involvement with the Klan
one out of four Klansmen was an FBI
agent so a lot if not all of that of Ku
Klux Klan policy and actions were being
directed by or acquiesced in by the FBI
and this led to the FBI and its
COINTELPRO program and its other
racially oriented programs actually
being implicated in and instigating
crimes civil rights crimes murders and
and such things
the Birmingham church bombing the
assassination of the civil rights
workers the Freedom Riders
Viola Louisa for one
the people in Philadelphia Mississippi
that just that role was involved in you
know and all of this and he was an FBI
informant he's the one who pulled the
trigger or at least fired a shot and one
of the incidents he was involved in the
bombing and again connected to the FBI
Hoover always felt that civil rights was
a threat to the country so that threat
to the country I don't believe you will
village threat to the social order to
the order of things and therefore as the
protector of not only quote the country
which he didn't leave the real part of
but the order of things which he knew we
weren't a part of anything that
threatened the order of things he had a
right to use tactics to destroy there
was a explanation for why our housing
was bad or education was poor our
political power was limited and that
explanation was that we were held as
colonial subjects within the United
States it's not a perfect explanation
it's an analogy to situations in Africa
and in Asia that we could see that fit
us therefore colonialism had been
denounced by the United Nations and
people were entitled to their
independence and they were justified in
breaking out of that type of control
that was the basic American history
police in our community couldn't
possibly be there to protect that
property because we only know property
they couldn't possibly be there to see
that we receive the due process of law
for the simple reason that the police
themselves Dniester due process of law
and so it's very apparent that the
police only in our community not for our
security but the security of the
business owners in the community and
also to see that the status quo is kept
intact
[Applause]
[Music]
police brutality remains as a major
issue in the black community and I'm
sure in in cities across the country and
probably will remain because if you just
examine what the police department is it
is the military arm of the establishment
so what do you expect of it you expect
it to protect the interests of the
establishment when you talk about law
and order they're very low in order that
you talk about oppresses us so therefore
we offer the extermination of that
knowing order and you have shown us
clearly that we can only do it by being
armed the existentialist philosophers
talked about the execution of victim
relationship that is always prevalent in
most of the world today especially the
non-white world where they're fighting
for their liberation he says there are
executioner's and their victims the
executioner's are self-imposed
the victims begin to fight and agitate
for their liberation they use all type
of means to get the liberation the
revolutionary philosopher Franz
Ferdinand says that what happens is that
the victim begins to agitate he uses all
types of means against his executioner
in fighting for a position of equality
after he tries a number of means and
they do not work he then begins to
imitate the means by which his
executioner had teamed down that is
usually through force and violence he
said then they begin to use it against
them breaking the winter beam that
they've never been able to break hidden
back against their executioner's so that
you ought not to be upset if we are
violent the United States taught us very
well how to be violent
[Applause]
four days of rioting looting and arson
rocked the city of Detroit in the worst
outbreak of urban racial violence this
year entire blocks of homes they come
infernos at least 36 are killed more
than 2,000 injured and damaged top the
half billion mark
Governor Romney declares a state of
emergency request federal troops and
5000 paratroopers reinforced the
National Guard state and city police the
city's industry and business are
severely affected and a tight curfew is
ordered in the motor center a besieged
city of guerrilla warfare sniper groups
use day and night hit-and-run tactics
before tanks move in to curb their
window and rooftop barrage wreckage is
everywhere
[Music]
civil rights leaders make a joint
condemnation of the violence and call
for an end to the rioting President
Johnson using firm words urges the
nation citizens to support the
maintenance of law and order
I know that the vast majority of Negroes
and white are shocked and are outraged
by the pillage looting murder and arson
have nothing to do with civil rights
they are criminal conduct
your president calls upon all of our
people in all of our cities to join in a
determined program to maintain law and
order to condemn and to combat
lawlessness in all of its forms and
firmly to show by word and by deep that
Rob's looting and public disorder will
just not be tolerated and they take care
of the reasons not only will they
eliminate this one but all others that
will come about I don't think it's over
I think it lasts until two people
understand what's going on I know a lot
of people seem I know a lot of friends
but I know it's gonna be the night
probably tomorrow night they go you know
they're gonna be on to your people
strangers
[Music]
when black people began to rebel and
you'd call it rides we understand that
those are not rides those are rebellions
people are rebelling because of
conditions and not the cause of
individuals
no individual creates a rebellion it
created out of the conditions and those
who billions will continue and it's not
a long hot summer that's white
journalistic sensationalism no such
thing as the long hot summer I know some
places around it you know snow I even
touched it down black power is a
consequence of the white backlash riots
are consequences of the white backlash
rather than a cause from it if they're
trying to present themselves as a
democratic nation as a free nation
trying to get Africans under their wing
and Africans in America are under a vote
and they're crushing them it will cause
too many problems but J Edgar Hoover was
not a fool he understood his job he had
to crush this movement that's why
COINTELPRO was that only instituted was
also quiet because this one could not be
could not get out because it was aimed
really just at us he was prepared to try
to destroy anything he saw as disruptive
to the social order of things that he
saw you know the you know in the early
days the the the mob is you know the G
you know that the image of the g-men
against the mob and so forth and then
later in terms of counterintelligence
against foreign agents and now in the
60s is something that he didn't
understand the thing the civil rights
movement disrupting the social order
things you use the same kind of tactics
that you use against the mob and the
people foreign agents as to citizens of
the United States there who were trying
to get you know their civil rights in
the civil liberties because there were
all threats to the social order and
therefore COINTELPRO came into be any
thought he had basically God on his side
means we gonna walk side by side with
you or through you we're gonna be
with dignity and integrity we don't want
any more than you have and then I'm
gonna accept any less than you have and
recognize it now moving from a mere
civil rights movement into a movement to
a gain political power to help deliver
on the promises of civil rights and the
combination of the two words black and
power was a little bit too much for
white America to handle but you have is
with it was a Black Power movement is an
avowed consciously perpetrated statement
that is political that says we want
something more than simply the civil
rights of the kinds of articulated
demands oh you want to talk about real
power I want to talk about international
issues linked all of this up we're
talking about the political power
economic power the internationalization
of the movement it is time for an honest
look at the problem of order in the
United States dissent is a necessary
ingredient of change but in a system of
government that provides for peaceful
change there is no cause that justifies
resort to violence let us recognize that
the first civil right of every
is to be free from domestic violence so
I pledge to you we shall have order in
the United States we were engaged in a
very clearly a warm Wharf survival war
for self-determination a war for
economic freedom or walk the cultural
freedom to be able to learn things about
culture to again our historical identity
we have seen the terrible results of
violence in this country it would be
intolerable if a handful of violent
people and that is what it is just a
handful could hardness against me to
change we must get noticed to this
violent few there are millions of decent
Americans who are willing to sacrifice
for change but they want to do it
without being threatened and they want
to do it peacefully they are the
nonviolent majority black and white who
are for change without violence these
are the people whose voice I want to be
[Music]
the question is well non-violence is
gonna be used is not a question for the
black community it's a question for
white America because white Americans
the one who's used violence for 400
years we have been the recipients of
violence we have never lynched
we have never shot we've never burned to
church we've never beaten people will
never take them to jail
that is the question for white America
the real question is can she civilize
herself before we get ready to civilize
[Applause]
so this particular time in Chicago I'm
going I'm going down for the fifth on
Prairie you know I see the helicopter I
get out the car
and I'm looking and some other people
were looking to and I looked down and I
see the capsule all burly white cops
this is not gonna get away and the own
this young brother who's on the ground
and I noticed some other people around
but it's all evens you recall all that
because my mind began to really you know
it was like the whole thing changed
I saw Vietnam I saw bomb sound play cool
cartoon all of these players that been
that you know down between July Cuchillo
whatever and they're all we can to like
of metamorphosizing almost in my mind
and and I heard the cop talk talk in
terms of detainee and then later on in
Los Angeles and in New York I heard that
again they're beginning to even use the
language and so that brought home a lot
of reality to me
and identifying the building on the
ground with the Vietnamese of the
Vietcong on him and which we had just
got through doing it and the helicopters
almost the identical thing but now we
were the DC in America black people are
treated very much as are the Vietnamese
people or any other colonized people
because we're used were brutalize the
police in our community occupy our area
our community as a foreign troop
occupies territory
and which is not concerned about the
Vietnam War for sale we are concerned
about the survival of black people in
this country and now we cannot survive
if we go fight some yellow man Vietnam
who ain't never called us [ __ ]
[Music]
no man can speak for Negros hotels
Negros love their enemy
no man can speak for Negros who tells
negro turn the other cheek
Negros suffer peacefully no Negro in his
right mind today who is going to turn
the other cheek now they felt that by a
million malcom-x but they would also
kill his ideas I'm here to tell you that
Malcolm X's idea would be stronger now
than they were when he was alive he
won't freedom we want the power to
determine the destiny of our black
communities without field employment for
our people who want an end to the
robbery by the capitalists of our black
community who are decent housing fit for
shelter for human beings we want
education for our people that exposes
the true nature of this decadent
American society we want education that
teaches us our true history and our role
in the present-day society our black men
exempt from military service and we want
immediate end to police brutality and
murder of black people black men held in
federal state county and city prisons
and jails
you know our black people we've got to
try to be tried by a jury of their peers
all people from very black communities
as defined by the Constitution of the
United States we want land bed housing
education clothing justice and peace
[Music]
I think because the the Panthers
captured the imagination and the energy
of young black people in the cities I
think that they represented a real
possibility or potential for community
control I think that the government had
you know we saw the riots that occurred
after Martin Luther King was
assassinated in 1968 and I think this
government saw that within its own
population there was a potential for a
real rebellion and I think the fact that
the Panthers the idea that the Panthers
might lead such a rebellion and what was
a real threat particularly when the
United States was trying to wage a war
in Vietnam and trying to use black
soldiers by and large to wage the war
they wanted to dismiss this as being a
street gang well we certainly were not a
street gang the threat was that we were
young a group of young people who were
committed to organize into a political
power base the poor and oppressed people
throughout this throughout this country
when you live in a class Society the
upper classes they're always in constant
constant fear of the what they call the
lower classes
the Panthers wanted to explode the myth
of the docile black who would turn the
other cheek and said no we won't turn
another cheek as a matter of fact if you
try to shoot me I'm gonna shoot back and
you got your gun and I got mine and so
therefore if you wanted to aggress upon
me then whereas I'm not an unnatural and
an aggressor that I would defend myself
to the hilt and that's what that's what
we were attempting to do well actually
the Black Panther Party in total was
very American phenomenon it was very
similar analytically to the Minutemen
historically a group of local citizens
who rose up to defend their community
against aggression which is what the
Black Panther Party
conceived itself as defending the
community that blacks lived in from
aggression from police forces who were
hostile we said move to higher level
we're moving to a level whereby the
people are going to take over control of
their destiny they're gonna take over
control of that community and the first
way of doing this is dealing with the
most intricate part of the fascist
treaty three-way oppression we said
demagogic line politicians and
avaricious greedy businessmen and we say
fascist PA cops but the one that's most
evident the one that's closest the one
that's more clear the ones is more
defined and the black community is those
fascist period cops so what we're saying
is if the people can deal with these
fools we we would have taken a
revolutionary step revolutionary leap I
should say so that's the program that we
think is going to move thanks to the
high level it's going to raise some
contradictions I'm gonna call some
antagonistic contradiction we prepared
to deal with them and we think that
people are prepared to deal with it we
constantly and at all times criticized
and condemned racism we always worked
with other organizations we never used
color as the basis of our criticism we
talked about power to the people and I
was very fundamental that is what
essentially democracy is supposed to be
about but the media wanted to portray
the Black Panther Party as something
that white people would be afraid of
therefore it portrayed it as a all-black
organization that hated white people and
wanted to use violence against white
people but once you have that idea of an
organization than anything they say is
bad and anything that can be done to
them is okay well you see the media has
played its traditional role the white on
white controlled media has played its
traditional role back then and today and
that traditional role is to maintain the
status quo status quo meaning white
folks on top black people on the bottom
so the media did the interpreting of
what was going on and they interpreted
everything in the light of how it would
impact upon the maintenance of the
status quality still do it so you can
see that there is a correlation between
the type of illegal and subversive
COINTELPRO actions that the FBI wanted
to mount against the party and the image
that was created in the media of the
party it's okay to do these things to a
big group of bad guys sylia master never
liked a slave to get in a defensive
position
he's called Albert Geneva and he's nice
but when you begin to study ways in
which to talk this genocide these
general saddle Wars and come up with
ideas logical ideas ideas that will work
then you become the greatest threat to
the internal security of the United
States and if that organization is the
greatest threat then it's militant
military apparatus is is up for grabs
it's fair game
all is fair in war so you get a corn
tempura completely illegitimate thing
and it's thrown at you and you say well
you can't crab you notices a war and
that program was intended to be run
secretly it was intended to be run as a
counterintelligence program would be run
against a Soviet spies that she spread
false information about and among the
black group so that they would shoot
each other well in California there was
a rivalry between the Black Panthers in
a group called us United slaves and
documents now show that the United that
that materials were sent and information
given to the United States in an effort
to get them to make an attack on the
Panthers and in fact there was an attack
man and two Panthers were killed
the FBI would get hotel stationery type
a letter saying that Connie had met with
Huey and David and they were really
hostile toward Eldridge and he should be
very careful about how we
with them and it would be the signature
would be C then Connie would get back to
Algiers and tell us about her meeting
when we already had this letter and then
she'd say but I didn't send you that
letter so then we'd say oh she's lying
in one situation the FBI used a fugitive
named George Samms and they chased him
across the country and they would have
raid each Panther office just as he left
but they would use his supposed presence
there as an excuse so the government
made it very crucial to their success
that it looked as if these things just
happened by accident there was no
connection between the plan of the FBI
and the fact that so many Panthers were
arrested so many of them went to trial
so many of them marriages broke up so
many terrible things happen however when
these things are happening to you you
know it's not an accident you know it's
not random we knew at the time there was
a conspiracy we knew it was planned we
knew it was coordinated we just had no
idea how sophisticated the plan or how
sophisticated the coordination was and
nor the collaboration between the
various agencies we didn't know it was
called COINTELPRO that involved the
Department of Defense it involves a
White House it involved the CIA and the
FBI in coordination we didn't know all
that but we knew they were doing these
things against us they were doing them
deliberately and we knew that they were
wrong they were able to put a cover on
the movement as best as they saw fit
through coin to up low and the best way
was to keep it quiet even today don't
talk about it because it still exists
what happened to just went like this no
political no politics next an
uncompleted a mother they knew that they
had this unsolved murder and what we
were told was that if in fact pratt was
not convicted in the shootout trial
which in fact he wasn't then they had to
come up with something else they weren't
gonna let him out of jail like I said I
didn't talk much of it because that I
was charged with to take the block of
mother tomatoes before Charles Manson
was charging you know because they had
off the pig on the wall in blood they
picked me up for that before they even
suspended showing around that'll give
you an idea of how often I would be
picked up and detained at the time the
tennis court murder occurred I remember
that Pratt came into the bay area that
he and Bobby Seale job David Hilliard
came over to the place I was saying in
San Francisco we met one evening the
next day next two days there were
meetings at David Hilliard house in
Oakland and he was there all the time no
matter what he did in 1968 or 69 as a
black panther he was arrested and
charged with a murder he went to trial
and he didn't know the following things
neither he nor the defense attorney knew
that the FBI was communicating daily
with an LA Police Department to try to
get him arrested and convicted of some
kind of event the fact that the
government was spying on us meant that
they would watch all of us it's not a
matter of only Pratt they were watching
Bobby Seale they were watching David
Hilliard they were watching me
they were follow us they knew where we
went they would tap our phone so that
for all of us come to one
have meetings for two of today's they're
going to know this nobody knew that the
chief witness against him was also an
FBI informant threatened by the FBI with
a machine gun charge he was Butler was
on parole at that time or on probation
he was alleged to have had a machine gun
the FBI could have locked him up for
five years if they'd wanted to so all of
the circumstances were sent to create a
witness against Pratt who would
cooperate rather than go to jail himself
by the time his case came to trial the
party had been divided so you could say
that as a consequence of : tell Pro
insinuations COINTELPRO actions
COINTELPRO desires : tell pro goals had
been accomplished in the sense that the
party was split and Geronimo's trial
Geronimo's destruction you might say was
a consequence of that kind of activity
because he could not other than me get
anyone to testify here he was I was
telling them all along the lawyers and
speaking in open court trying to make
these assertions and it looked at me
like I was ego tripping that would be
the thing I would get daga like solid
cloud I'm in Folsom Prison in a whole
woman over here the communication want
that are they good so I tried because I
cleared I wrote different people and to
try to expose Pratt didn't know that one
of the witnesses had identified somebody
else was the murderer a year earlier
against him that didn't come out he
didn't know that the FBI had put
informants in his defense camp that were
reporting back to the FBI what Pratt and
his attorneys were planning and talking
about clearly that's a constitutional
breach the FBI of course says well none
of these things really affected his
trial that was just the evidence against
him but the FBI wouldn't release these
inform these documents it took Pratt's
attorneys volunteer acting pro bono
without fee from 76 until 1979 to
I'm out of the FBI grudgingly documents
that still were heavily censored you
couldn't get certain information because
they'd blacked it out finally when all
of the information that could be
obtained from the FBI under the Freedom
of Information Act was obtained Pratt
goes to the California Court and then
after the court of appeal and finally to
the Supreme Court and during that
process in 79 and 1980 the FBI said to
the state authorities what we're telling
you all about COINTELPRO and everything
we can find but deliberately kept from
the California Attorney General and the
court the information that one of their
own agents thought frat Pratt had been
framed by the FBI in 1972 so it's a very
political situation very political and
shouldn't should have never been really
held the courts are not equipped to hell
a case of this magnitude it should be it
should have been held on an
international level you know and this is
where we've been petitioning more and
more and more in fact I was invited to
speak in Geneva representing political
prisoners in this country just last
month but their difficulties with that
you know that it should be a lot of
international broader level what people
can understand because she's like
excellent Jesse James to adjudicate what
his brother Frank James did
in spite of the fact that jazz go Hoover
is no longer with us we have some j
edgar hoover types and they do what they
can to make sure that the opportunity
for self-expression is denied and the
fact of the matter is that an America
like in every other society that it's
prepared to tolerate injustice in order
to maintain the social order democracy
is not hypocrisy don't put your hands on
me Marcus it means freedom why aren't
our people through justice why don't we
have just if the macula means a polity
why don't we have required
[Music]